[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
I want to give an orientation to you on the RStudio environment,

and you can open this either on the university's PCs, on your own laptop, or on the university's apps anywhere.

And you should see something that looks like this.

And the first thing you see is that there's this console pane, and there is a blinking cursor here, which is our waited for you to tell it what to do.

So let's get stuck in. Let's tell our to do something.

Let's ask our two. Tell us what two plus two is.

So we type that into the console and it gives a result.

And it gives that result there as four.

So that all sounds good. That's not usually how we um, operate in our.

So usually in our, uh, we act to use functions.

So here's a function called square root. So let's see if we can get the square root of 16.

And so this is the format here. The function is uh sqrt which is square root.

And it has these brackets. And inside those brackets is the number that we want to take the square root of 16.

And then when we type return after that we get the same results.

Here the square root of 16 is four.

So some of the advantages of working in R are that, uh, you're able to, uh, record all of the commands that you make and then able to,

um, redo those commands again at some later point and keep the track of those commands as much as you would do for a lab book.

But here the lab book is referring to what you do during an analysis.

So let's move over to this pane on the bottom right here.

So this is um, looking at the, uh, your file system.

Uh, the directories and folders that you have. And here I'm sitting within one of my folders called teaching.

So let's create, uh, a set of folders to organise all our work for.

Ah. So we can click this new folder tab here.

And. Let's give a name to this folder where we're going to put all of our live 707 work.

And we can click on that to enter that folder.

We can see we're sitting in that folder now because the path is changed.

And actually let's organise ourselves a little bit more and have a folder for each of the topics that we're working on.

So first topic here. Topic one create a folder for this.

Topic one. Click on that and we move to within that folder.

Another thing that we can do is and I strongly encourage you to do all the time,

is to create a simple text file within our studio that's going to contain all of your commands that you use and comments that you make on them,

and that lets you go back to those commands that you've run.

And let's just see what you've done and lets you edit those.

So if we go up here, uh, to this little new file tab here, it gives you a bunch of options.

Let's just take the simplest one, which is the one at the top here.

And our script. And here it's created this editor pane here.

And we can, uh, do what we did before we can work out the square root of 16.

We can enter this into this text file here as we did before.

And here we can either copy and paste this into the pane below the console pane where all the commands are run.

Or we can hit this run button here.

And the line here your blinking cursor. The result will be the line that gets run by R.

So we can try this now. And if we hit run there, you can see that it's just pasted that into the console for you.

And it's given that um, result again result of four.

If we want to add comments to a file this is a useful thing.

It lets us work out what it is we did a few weeks ago.

Uh, that's a reminders on that. So we can just edit that in here.

And comments. In this case, we put a hash symbol in front of all the comments that we want to make.

So that's a hash symbol there. And we can add in some comments on this.

So I'm going to say these are notes on topic one. And we can go down here.

We can add another comments to this particular command. To remind myself that this is how we, uh, work out what a square root is.

What we should then do. So you see here that this is, uh, red, and it's untitled.

So we want to, um, be able to save that.

So we got to here, and we look down.

Uh, we do save hours, just as you would do with a word document or anything else.

And let's see. So let's already work our way through this.

Uh, to top it one and then give it a file name here.

Notes. And top it one. And we can save that.

And what you see in the file directory here we've got this new file as in here as appeared nuts on top at once.

R and R is just the standard file extension that lets your Windows or Mac work out, uh, that you've got.

Um, this file is an R file. It's actually just a very simple text file though underneath that.

So some of the other things that we step you through to do are to instead of just outputting the result of a

command into the console here you can take the results of that command and take this into another object.

So just taking a moment to look at this. So this line here, this is a very common construction in R.

So here we've got um a function and a And function has got, um, brackets.

And within the brackets is the object that we want to apply that function to.

So we've got an object here which is the number 16. We want to apply the square root function to that which will give a result of four.

And here this uh, arrow here which we create using the less than and uh, a dash that is the what's called the assignment operator.

And that's basically as you can kind of see, it's going to take the result of this function here,

the value four, and it's going to assign it to this new object that we're going to call Y.

So the easiest way to see this perhaps is just to run this.

So we hit the run button as we did before. That appears in the console.

But this time there's we don't see that value for appearing here.

But don't worry it's what it's got.

It's still ours. Still got this blinking cursor. It's waiting for you to give it another command.

But what you will see is that up in this top right hand pane, it's got an object here, uh,

called Y, and it's actually showing you what the value of that is there, which is four.

And we can see this if we like, we can go to the console.

We can just type y in hit return. And then all that does is that it returns the value that's held in that object y there, which is this number four.

So that's a very common construction you're taking, uh, a function.

You're applying it to an object within these brackets.

And you're taking what that function produces and you're assigning it to a value there which sits within your our environment.

And as you go through the workshop, you'll see a number of different objects will appear in this environment there as you go through your code.

So you see here that this is this file name is in red.

And we could probably do with saving this. So let's just go to file and then save this.

It's a useful practice just to get into saving this regularly.

One of the final things which I get you to do a little bit later is to change the working directory, uh, that you use.

So this is particularly when you're thinking about how to, uh, read data in.

You want to tell our where to look for that data. And so one way to do this.

We've already navigated to this folder.

Topic one where we're going to hold all of the associated data that we need, and various files that we're going to use in topic one.

So we can tell are that anything new that we're going to ask our to look for is going to be within this folder.

And we do that in a couple of ways. Easiest way I find is to go up to this session.

Plus in here go set working directory and to this files pane location which is that bottom right pane there navigated to.

Already we do that and actually produces this uh command here set working directory to this uh, path uh which we set up.

